From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 92 recorded
live Monday, December 10th, 2007. Support for
Hanselman it's is provided by
Tellerik already controls the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forums and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also
provided by dotnet developers journal.
The world's leading dotnet developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks about the
past present and future of
visual basic with principal VB
architect, Paul Vick, and BB
team program manager. Paul, you
can have it. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman, and this
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'm sitting here
in building 41 in the
Microsoft campus. And I am
privileged to talk to Paul.
a lead program manager
on the VB team and
pelvic architect on the VB
team. Thanks guys for taking
the time to talk to
me. Thanks. Thanks. So I've
got this, this idea in
my mind, this idea of
a blog post I'm working
on writing it, and it
may actually come out by
the time that I have
put this on this podcast
up on the net. And
the title is, is rooting
for visual basic like rooting
for the red Sox, because
it seemed to me like,
I mean, I started out
as a VB guy. I
think everyone, ultimately at some
point in their life was
a VB person. You know,
the red Sox, people spent
80 years kind of suffering
and you know, they love
their team and it wasn't
winning it. Wasn't winning. And
now there's this new generation
who discovered the red Sox
when they were winning. So
now it's suddenly easy. And
then the news came out
recently that VB is the
number one.net language. How do
you, how would you describe
this news? Sure. Yeah, I
just say that VB is
the most used.net language and
the most used Microsoft language.
So that's, that's kind of
a title we had a
long time ago and it's
one that, you know, we're
looking at the data again.
We see that again. And
how do you measure something
like that? How do you
say, you know, you know,
when we, when we were
saying, we're awesome, we're the
best you based this on
what metric? Yeah. We have
a few different metrics and
proxies for the metric. So
we run our own survey,
which we call DTS. And
I can't talk too much
about that. Sure. But that's
really what we use to
run the business. And then
you can look at some
external things like you could
look at the Forrester research
that was put out there
in 2007, also in 2005,
there's some good indicators there.
Sometimes we look at our
express downloads, right? So we
have VB express and kind
of the whole express line
that went out there. We
can measure downloads and ultra
registrations downloads of tell us,
you know, what's the initial
interest. And then registrations tell
us how many people were
interested in the product to
keep using it. And give
us a little bit more
information. So it's a kind
of conversion. They allowed to
use it for a number
of period. Exactly. Right. It's
kind of a conversion rate.
So I can tell you
about the express numbers, VBS
actually in the first place
and actually in second place
a C plus plus, which
would surprise us plus. Yeah.
Which surprised a lot of
people. Wow. And that's about,
let's say 20% kind of
lower number in downloads. Okay.
So that just gives you
some facts and you know,
lets us look at some
of the momentum. You know,
obviously there's a lot of
other indicators we could be
looking at this surprise you
guys. It surprised me. It
surprised me to the point
where I'm still don't believe
you. Okay. I'm, I'm really
not surprised because you know,
we talked to enthusiastic and
learning programmers and really just
the masses of pro developers.
We, you know, that's when
you're really speaking to the
VB audience. So my red
Sox analogy that suddenly it's
easy to root for VB.
I wonder if the old
timers have some of that,
you know, back when VB
wasn't popular, we stayed with
you. We fought and fought
and fought and said that
this was the language. This
was the language. And now
suddenly you're number one. Yep.
That's pretty amazing. So how
long have you been on
the team? I've been on
the team for about almost
eight years. Wow. So forever.
And I even, I saw,
you know, I saw the
ball go under Buckner's legs
too, so I can definitely
relate to it. So you
understand where you're coming from?
That's good. I feel better
about my analogy now. So
what, what is VB written
in? I'll pass this up
to pelvic. Okay. So most
of the compiler is written
in C plus plus, well,
actually it's really more C
but when we use the
C plus plus compiler, we
use mostly, mostly sort of
standard C with a little
bit of C plus plus
features thrown in there. Although
there is a chunk of
it, the, the runtime component
is all written in visual
basic itself. So all the
late binding and language helpers
and all of the language,
all the library functions are
all written in VB. I
remember when visual basic.net came
out there was this kind
of uncomfortable transition. People were,
were feeling like, is this
really visual basic, or is
this some new thing that
we've added.net to? Do you
feel that those kinds of
that painful time has passed
a transition? Yeah. Yeah. I
mean, I feel like we're
definitely past that. I mean,
I think that a lot
of it was even more
than the, the language itself.
It was the transition to
a whole new framework. I
mean, basically, you know, the
whole framework was changed out
from under people. And I
think that now that we've
had a, but now we've
had geez, almost six years
of stability with that. It's
like, you know, people, I
think people, a lot of
people have made the transition.
There's definitely some stragglers that,
you know, have really big
code bases or whatever for
whatever reason, but we're definitely
seeing good migration. Right. Remember
when, when it first came
out, the big question was
about speed. And I think
people spend at least 18
months just panicking and, and
writing four loops with a
million, four, one, two a
million, well clearly VBS faster.
And it just kind of
ridiculous benchmarks. Right. Ultimately I
think it was reflector for
me that just proved the
point when I went in
and just saw that, well,
you know, I was ill.
Right. Right. Exactly. And it's,
I think too, like early
on, there were a lot
of issues with, you know,
comparisons between various languages where,
you know, we, if you
take advantage of certain VB
features, you're going to, you
know, sacrifice some performance. But
so it was really like,
you know, once you get
down to the apples to
apples, you know, the part
of the issue is that
we ended up doing a
lot of things for users
and they don't even realize
they're taking advantage of language
features that don't exist are
harder than other languages. I
can see it. And that's
where for me, it gets
really interesting. Once we move
past the, the syntactic sugar
discussions and we move past
the it's all eye on
the perf, we understand that
these are C-sharp VB, whatever
these are all first-class languages,
but from a language designer
perspective, like looking at VB
as an at C-sharp as
an example, when the using
statement came out and there
was this big controversy that
this is just a really
attractive syntax over try catch
finally. And people are like,
well, that's ties the language
to the platform too much.
It's not a pure language.
You're breaking all sorts of
rules. And then once that
the purist moved past that
it seemed like some really
cool innovation happened. And it
seems to me like vb.net,
what I think of is
kind of one O and
C sharp one, Oh, were
really peers. They were, they
offered different flavors of the
same thing. But then with
like the XML support and
VB VB nine, and some
of the C-sharp throw stuff,
it seems like you guys
are taking risks. Right. Right.
Exactly. We kind of, well,
you know, especially for VB,
I mean like, cause yeah,
I mean, part of the
reason why I won, I
was so similar to, or,
you know, our set version
seven was similar to, they
want to see sharp. Was
it, you know, we were,
I mean, we really started
behind the eight ball in
a lot of ways. I
mean, because, you know, not
only, I mean, like C-sharp
kind of had the advantage
of starting from a blank
slate, whereas we, you know,
had to think about language
compatibility and, and all that
kind of stuff and, and
sort of carrying it forward.
Yeah. Make sure it's their
work. So use your language.
And so, you know, we've
kind of, you know, we
spent seven, Oh, and to
some degree, eight O catching
up with, you know, what's
going on, you know, the,
the features like there were
things we didn't get to
ship in seven. Oh, we
wanted to, that we wanted
to, when we shipped to
NATO. So with, with the
latest version, we were starting
to get to that point
where it's like, Hey, you
know, we actually have time
to do features like great
features, like excellent literals where
it's like, you know, we
can do something different. And,
and also, I mean, we've
also been seeing kind of,
not just externally, but internally
a lot of interest in
partnering with, you know, working
with VB language. So like,
you know, for example, the
XML literal stuff actually was
a partnership with the team
over in the SQL organization
that were interested in having
better support for eczema on
the platform. So Let's talk
about that for a minute
because I find that almost
creepy because I think people
have the same experience with
link. It's just like this
really should be an inside
of quotes. You know? And
I wrote up a paper
at me and years ago,
I called it a caste
system for API has been
talked about third class, second
class, and first class API
APIs. And the idea that
so much of our, our,
our world lives inside of
these tunneled strings, you know,
it would be X path
or rejects or SQL, and
then suddenly to see them
outside of those strings is
really kind of disconcerting. And
it makes me wonder how,
how would they do that?
How do they get IntelliSense
to work? And what's the
relationship between IntelliSense and the
compiler and how much voodoo
did the compiler have to
do to understand that? Well,
it was, I mean, it
was a fair amount of
work. Like, I mean, we
definitely had to build, you
know, native XML, the, you
know, same old XML parsing
and scanning technology that every,
you know, XML processor has
to, but we actually did
get a chance to like,
we leveraged as much code.
So like a lot of
the XML and tell us
it's work was actually takes
advantage of the work that
the X, like there's an
XML editor in visual studio.
So we just reused a
lot of that code to
actually do a lot of
the UI work itself. So,
so we're definitely going to
take, you know, stealing what
any code and reusing it
that we can. So how
does an idea like that
happen? And I mean, help
me understand, you guys have
both been here long enough
that you can say that
there was a meeting, right?
Tell me about the Tuesday
when one of you guys
or whoever who's not here
today said, dude, what if
we, what was that meeting
like? Well, excellent literal is
a really interesting, because it
actually was like, it's like
kind of a very long,
it's amazing how longterm process,
because actually it started out
being prototyped originally and something
called , which was a
prototype C-sharp compiler. And Eric Meyer,
who's an architect here. He
prototyped that and he really
let you know, so he
was pushing that idea and
he actually came to us
and said, you know, I
really think this is a
great idea. We should definitely
do it. And he volunteered
some resources even to help
out. And so they actually
did it, they did it,
they got our compiler code
base and they prototyped it.
And so then they did
a proof of concept. And
then yeah. Then there was
that kind of, there was
the meeting where we kind
of sat down and go,
okay, you know, what do
we think? And we decided
to say, yeah, this actually
looks, they did a really
compelling demo. And it's like,
yeah, this is great. And
so, I mean, really in
some ways it's like, you
know, there's like 10 or
15 good ideas in language
design that we just keep
recycling, you know, over time,
ultimately this will become list.
Exactly. So it's sort of
like, you know, it's really
looking at, you know, having
people prototype and looking at
these features and then, then
we sort of, okay, what
are we gonna, what are
we going to absorb this
time? So How do you
guys balance productivity like raw
productivity and be kind of
like the goal is to
get to ultimate expressiveness in
zero lines of code with
purity in the, in the
computer science kind of sense
where you kind of say,
you know, what would the
current again, and Richie be
proud of us, those kinds
of things. I mean, I
assume those thoughts are in
the back of your mind.
Yeah. Although it's funny, like,
you know, because like with
the C sharp tape, I
mean, coming from the Kernaghan
Richie, you know, lineage, I
think they're much more concerned
about purity than I basic
is probably one of the
most impure languages over the,
you know, and over the
decades. But yeah. I mean,
I think that I, and
I think that is like
something that we explicitly, you
know, we're Def we definitely
prioritize productivity over purity, you
know? I mean, there were
certainly people who look at
the XML literal features and
go, ah, you know, how
could you bake this into
your language? And what affects
ML ends up not being,
you know, useful in the,
you know, 20 years from
now. And it's like, Oh
yeah. I mean, that's, that's
a risk, but right now
it really, if it's going
to help people where we're
going to go for it.
So those discussions did come
up. I mean, somebody who
said that this is, this
is horrific. We can't do
that. Yeah. Not so much
on the VB team, but
definitely in some of the
discussions outside or, you know,
when we talked with the
C-sharp team about what we're
doing, you know, that was
the other people on their
team that had that. Yeah.
Some nice kind of a
back and forth. I know
that the word in my,
in my eight weeks at
Microsoft, now the word that
keeps coming up is this
coopertition. Yep. I mean, you're
working together, but you're competing
and that this is supposed
to move the ball forward.
Yeah. It's a funny situation
because there definitely is that,
you know, like we collaborate
on all kinds of things
and we need, you know,
and yet at the same
time, there's always that kind
of sideways looking at, okay,
what are those guys doing?
What are we doing? You
know, like, you know, trying
to one up each other.
And that, I think that
is healthy in a lot
of ways. Cause it definitely
pushes each team to be
a lot better than it
might've been on its own
if it had the whole
place to itself. So, so
what is VBX and how
does the DLR that is
kind of emerging? Everyone's talking
about iron this and iron
that, you know, are Ruby
iron list by Python and
the DLR is this, this
library that's going to help
her library. That makes, I
like to say it makes
dynamic method, even that much
more interesting. Right. Right. What
does VBX, what am I
saying it, right. Yeah. No,
that's, that's, you know, that's
a code name. We were,
you were using for sort
of a, well, it started
out as a prototyping of
how would we support a
VB on top of the
DLR. And so we've been
prototyping that for a while
now. Actually we don't have,
we were hoping to have
something if we were going
to have a PDC, but
we ended up having one,
but basically, you know, what
we're interested in is sort
of the, the two, well,
the shorter two major ideas
of the DLR. Well three,
actually three major ideas. One
is, you know, the, the
idea of being, making languages,
host stubble, and, you know,
running them outside of visual
studio. And that we're very
interested in. I mean, we
kind of have a long
history of that with like
VB script. Yeah. Because I
think everyone's wondering is, is
it time for BB to
jump into office and to
jump into the macros? And
if I'm going to start
using, if I want to
exploit all of that VBA
knowledge out there, and there's
just massive amounts of it,
right. VB, vb.net should be
that language. Right. And so,
you know, the question is
how do we get there
technologically? And the DLR is
very interested in that. And
the other thing is, is
the dynamic language aspect of
it. And, you know, we're
kind of a, we have
dynamic aspects. We're not a
dynamic language. Cause I th
I wouldn't say we're fully
dynamic language. Cause there are
a lot of things that
cannot be done at runtime,
but we have a lot
of dynamic aspects. And so
the other interesting thing is,
you know, where can we
absorb those ideas? Cause I
mean, a lot of, there
are a lot of wonderful
ideas and Ruby and Python
and it's like, you know,
this is, you know, I
spent a lot of time.
In fact, yesterday I spent
two hours sitting in a
room with Jim Laguna and
the architect on the DLR,
you know, talking about just
these kinds of issues. Like,
you know, what, what kind
of language features do we
need? And also, and then
we also are spending a
lot of time talking about
technologically, how we get there.
So right now kind of
VBX is our code name
for what we've been prototyping.
But now we're now that
we're and the end game
for orcas. Sure, sure. We're
like figuring out how we
actually bring that to a
product. Well, you know, one
of the things that I've
been learning and I gave
a talk on the MVC
in Vegas last week, that
it seems that this is
nice, comfortable sign wave that
we're settling into where it's
like big, giant release and
then little point things that
we can, can make things
better. I mean, a lot
of cool ad-ons came in
after visual studio 2005 that
made it better, whether it
be in the form of
project templates or iron Python
integration with the thing. So
I don't think that we're
quote unquote stuck with 2008
because there's going to be
like two years of really
cool stuff. So I assume
whether it be a web
download or a service pack
or whatever, you'll find some
mechanism to get these features
out to the people. Cool.
Yeah. That's, that'd be the
goal. I mean, what I,
I mean, we're not, we
don't have solid plans on
it yet, but it will
be great to be able
to sort of disconnect ourselves
to some degree from visual
studio and not be totally
dependent on, you know, Oh
my God, we gotta wait
for the next big train
to leave the station before
we can get some interesting
things out. And actually Paul
has been doing some great
work with like the, there
we've been doing a lot
of like power packs and
other things like that that
have been off cycle. And
so it's sort of just
taken our existing strategy and
even take kicking it up
a notch as you are.
Yeah. So talk to me
a little bit about, explain
like to the layman, like
what a dynamic language feature
is. I mean, as a
VB six program, if you'd
be three programmer myself, I
keep thinking, well, it's either
option strict or it's not
option strict and that that's
not the computer science person's
perspective. That's just the checkbox
person's perspective from someone who,
you know, right-click project properties,
option strip, help me understand
the difference. Well, I mean
the, so the interesting thing
is like, you know, that
if you look at dynamic
languages like Python and Ruby,
like there's the dynamic aspect.
And then there were a
bunch of other kind of
ancillary features that don't necessarily
have to do with dynamism
per se, but are kind
of, you know, people think
of as part of the
dynamic language. I mean the
core of a dynamic language
is just that you can
defer a lot of the
processing you would normally do
at compile time to run
time. So basically what that
really means is you get
to leave off a lot
of typing, you know, you
don't, you don't have to
be so like right now,
like the lazy yeah, exactly.
The BB and C sharp
compilers are a real pain
in the ass sometimes because
they're real sticklers for all
these things matching up, you
know, and the dynamic languages
are really nice. Cause just
have the kind of flow
where you just, you know,
you just do what you
want to do and you
don't have to be real
formal about it. And it
just at runtime, magically, everything
works and you differ. I
mean, a lot of that
work is done at runtime,
but then there are a
lot of other aspects like,
you know, in, in Python
and Ruby making. And we
started moving towards this, like
with expression trees, like making,
you know, programs is data
and being able to manipulate
program, they call meta-programs exactly
meta programming and we've kind
of taken our first little
baby tentative step into that
world with expression trees and
link. But I mean, I
think there's a whole world
of possibilities there that we
are interested in exploring. Cause
too, if you could, if
you look at like some
of the things that we
do in our language, like
the declarative event handling, like,
you know, really, that's just
kind of meta programming that
we've built into the compiler,
but it'd be great to
open that up and let
other people extended and be
able to ship new libraries
that do cool stuff like
that. So one of the
things that I, One of
the thoughts that I always
have about, about the Microsoft
developer versus the non-Microsoft developer
is that there's always this
discussion about comp PSI people,
computer science, people versus people
who are great programmers or
have been programmers for years,
but never went to school.
And when I say went
to school, I don't necessarily
mean they don't have a
formal background in things like,
I mean, I went to
Visited MIT and ultimately went
to a community college and
then we got a, got
a state college degree. So
when I had my compiler
classes and things like that,
and I've met people that
can code, you know, code
me out, blow me away
when it comes to coding
who have never had a
class in compiler theory or
anything like that. And there's
always been this kind of
perception that maybe the C
curly brace people may have
had a more formal background
in education. Then the VB
people is that, is that
a stigma that kind of
sticks to VB? Cause I'm
wondering as, I mean, VB
is well into the hardcore,
we're getting into Lambdas and
closures and stuff that is
pretty squarely in, well, back
in the, back in the,
in the late sixties. Right.
You know, we're kind of
coming all back around. Is
there concern that these things
won't be made accessible to
the people or is the,
is the collective knowledge just
being, being raised? Well, I
think that like when we
do these features, a lot
of it is organized around
like it's in the most
cases like, you know, like
we introduced a whole bunch
of advanced features that in
the end, we're all built
to support the simple query
syntax in a sense it's
like the idea that you
can, you can sort of
have a simple, you can
live at a simple level
at the top if you,
and then as you need
to, you dig down into
the power and yeah. I
mean, I think, you know,
to your broader question, it's
like, you know, about the,
the rambling question, you know,
the academic, like, you know,
academic versus nonacademic. I was
reading some quotes somewhere saying
that, you know, programmers are
kind of like docs in
the sense that they imprint
on the, for, you know,
little ducks in print on
the first creature they come
across and like, you know,
programmers imprint on their first,
you know, major language. Totally.
And so, you know, since
C is a big, you
know, language in school, you
know, maybe people, you know,
they go through school, you
know, Well, and another thing
is that programmers the way
that you really test to
see if someone's a programmer
at the fundamental level of
their personality is that of
a programmer is you tell
someone that it's not possible
and then see what they
can do. Right. So like
my very first job was
getting a visual basic application
to paint the icon when
it was minimized and program
manager. Right. Cause you only
get the standard VVI, you
know? So I called Dan
Appleman and I got the
Dessa where controls and I
got into the message pump
and I started fooling around
and I got it to
work, you know? So whenever
anyone says that VB can't
do this or Ruby can't
do that. Somebody hacks the
heck out of it and
comes up with an elegant
solution. And ultimately he ended
up using a bunch of
advanced, advanced feature. Yeah. And
you know, and if you
look even back at, you
know, VB sex, maybe five,
I mean, there was a
very, you know, there was
a flourishing group community that,
you know, was organized around
exactly. Those kinds of problems.
It's like, you know, how
do I do these things?
And it's like, here's the
chunk of code that will
allow you to do it
and you know, good. You
know, you just cut and
paste that Were you, I
mean, you were there during
this time, were you freaking
out that people were doing
these things? You're like, wow,
I did not think they'd
be able to pull that
out. I will actually, I
came in right at the
end of the, you know,
the old VB six era.
But yeah, I mean, it
was, it was a little
frightening, like some of the
things that you could do,
I mean, and it was
one of, you know, some
of the issues as we
looked at transitioning to dot
mad is, I mean, there
were a lot of trap
doors in the, in the
VB language that allowed you
to do some very frightening
things. And actually, I mean,
even some of the people
on our own team did
some frightening things with, there
was a guy, Matt Curlin,
who I always remember, he
was like, you know, would
do things that you should
not have legally been able
to do, but he would
find a way to do
it. So People are asking
rather than asking for features,
now people are, are making
them happen. Like I, I
find that the XML expressiveness
in VB is just so
nice, but I don't want
to ship an extra DLL.
So I went and came
up with a whole post
build step in ms. Bill
to go and call I'll
merge. So then now I
can use VB in this
class and then, you know,
kind of squish it in.
And then people said, well,
you know, net module support
has been in, in, in.net
for years and years. It's
just never been sourced into
the, you know, the visual
studio shell. And I guess
people started to talk about
that again. Well, maybe it's
time to give that, you
know, we didn't want to
give it to people before
it was too complicated, too
confusing, maybe mixed language projects,
maybe it's time for that.
You know, those. Do you
guys think about that? I
mean, do you talk to
people about that or is
it, well, we have our
space, we have our language
we're going to stay Well,
it's a constant struggle. I
mean, definitely like, because we're
the VB team, you know,
we tend to think about,
I mean the VB issue.
I mean, like you can
see it not just with
net modules, but even like
when you have multi project
multilanguage solutions, even there are
places where it's kind of
like things don't quite fit
together between the languages. And
that definitely is a constant
struggle, but yeah, it is.
I think the longer we
go, the more pressure we
get even internally to kind
of support these, these mixed
scenarios and really be a,
I mean, like one of
the, you know, one of
the things that we're just
in a meeting the other
day and somebody was like,
you know, why can't I
do a rename across multiple
language projects in a single
solution. It's like, you know,
factor in factor. If I
want to rename something, I'd
only go, you know, you
have a lot of issues
with that. And it's like,
yeah, you know, that's, that's
true. And so let's go,
let's start trying to figure
out how to address this
problem. So yeah, but it's
this constant tension because of
course, you know, on the
one hand, the languages are
similar in a lot of
ways. And on another hand
there are a lot of
differences. And so it's hard
to build things that work,
you know, that abstract fully
the two languages. Do you
guys plan, like, do you,
do you have a sense
that, well, gosh, 2015, this
is kind of where I
see visual basic going or
do you only go a
couple of years because the
community is ultimately dictating what,
what happens? I mean, I
know I'm on the BBB
insider's list and these guys
are passionate. I mean, they
have, you know, okay, here's
what we need in the
next version. I mean, there's,
they're giving you a specs
almost like this is what
we, this is what we
plan to see people. So
I mean, how much of
it is your guys's exploration
of the potential of the
language versus just taking feedback
from the community? I think
it's, Hmm. I dunno. It's
balanced. It's definitely a balance,
you know, there's not just
with the community, but there's
also the larger trends in
the like, you know, dynamic
language script stuff that wasn't
even on the radar, you
know, five years ago. And
so, you know, to some
degree, the reality is always
going to come in and
rearrange our priorities. But, but
we do always have like
a long, I think probably
a thinking out at least
a couple of releases. I
mean, if you look at
the link stuff, I mean,
the Genesis of that was
probably, I mean, I have
emails of discussions from, you
know, 2003. So, you know,
it's been, it's been incubating
for a long period of
time, you know, to get
here. So, you know, I
think ahead, that's the thing
that's blown me away. Cause
I mean, I've been kind
of in the, in the
Microsoft industry, you know, for
15, 16 years now. And
I got into the things
like the MVP program and
there's the kind of the,
the I felt I was
inside. And then now eight
weeks into the company, I
didn't know anything. You guys
are, well, you guys, we,
now I can say we
were planning this all sorts
of crazy stuff. I had
no idea people, it takes
so long, right? The release
of the source code, or
you guys are going to
be involved in that too.
We'll be able to step
into the.net framework, which I
assume includes Microsoft visual, basic
dot Whatever, not in the
initial release, I think. But
I think that we're working
on getting that in, in
a reasonable time frame That
took two or three years
from the, like the moment
that guy had the idea
until it actually came out.
And that's accelerating. I understand
that the, I think Zune
was like some number of
months from concept to, to
execution. So That's really interesting
that you have to pay
attention to the what's coming
out from the, the community.
And we'll keep saying that
ultimately every language is going
to become list. And a
lot of these old timers
in the long beards are
saying, ah, here we go
again. Yep. It's dynamic languages
again. Yeah. It's funny. Well,
you know, and to like,
it's, it's also, the technology
has to come. Sometimes the
technology has to catch up
with, you know, the, the
design ideas and, you know,
I mean, like for example,
with link it's like there
were so many pieces that
kind of had to be
put into place, you know,
like, you know, it was
not possible without generics and
you know, lots of other
things it's sort of, you
know, that's what these long
cycles sometimes is about. It's
just, you know, getting everybody
lined up in the right
direction to actually make it
happen. So. Cool. Well, I
really appreciate you guys taking
the time out of your
day to talk to me.
And this has been another
episode of Hansel minutes. We'll
see you again next week.
.